# Welcome to Learn

Welcome to Learn! We're thrilled that you've joined our community of learners!
In this lesson, we want to briefly talk about the Learn platform and philosophy.

Learn is designed for people who are passionate, curious, self-driven, and
absolutely serious about learning to code. We are on a never ending quest for
knowledge and we know there are no shortcuts. That being said, the _way_ you
learn, the order in which you grasp concepts, and the depth of knowledge you
acquire _matters_ when it comes to how quickly you can understand and apply what
you've learned.  

Programming is incredibly fun, and at times, can be quite challenging. Our goal
is provide you with the right materials, support and structure _you_ need to
discover your own love for code.

## Building Birdhouses

Imagine that we want to learn how to build a birdhouse, but do not have any
experience with woodcrafting. Where would we start? Is it necessary to _first_
learn everything about the particular type of wood we are using? Or how nails
and hammers are made?

No. It may be _valuable_ to know what type of wood we're using, or _interesting_
to understand how nails are made, but these things won't stop us from
successfully building a birdhouse. In fact, we likely won't fully appreciate the
materials, the wood and nails, we're using until we've gone through the
experience of _building the birdhouse first_.

After building birdhouse v1, we can go back and better understand the best type
of wood to use for our purposes, or realize glue works just as well as nails.
When we build birdhouse v2, iterate over the task again, it'll be way better. By
birdhouse _v3_, we know how everything fits together just by looking at the
materials. By _v4_... we've developed a custom birdhouse building tool and did
you know cedar deters some bugs and is great for wet climates?

## Writing Code

Learning how to program is not much different.  Where do we
start? How do we know what is necessary to understand _first?_

With Learn, the goal is to handle that part. Learn provides an environment that
gets past some of the initial hurdles, making sure you are off the ground
faster, learning what is necessary for your success. As you progress, you will
be gaining the skills you need to pursue programming in whichever direction you
choose.

Most people on Learn have already been learning to code a bit by using the
amazing and plentiful resources all around the internet. In developing the
content here on Learn, though, we make no assumptions. It is designed for
absolute beginners. Lessons build off each other, providing the tools and
concepts necessary to complete future lessons.

What we don't do, however, is dumb anything down. We believe in your infinite
capacity to learn. We do our best to offer a curriculum that is clear,
digestible, engaging, challenging, and deep. The curriculum you'll encounter on
Learn is rigorous and will demand that you be patient, resilient, resourceful,
and gritty.

From the beginning, we'll make sure you have the support and tools you need;
you just need to bring the grit.

## The Learn Community

We don't believe in learning alone. As you make progress, expect to bump into
other learners just like you, ready and willing to help each other succeed.
Together, we can go further than we could ever go alone. We expect everyone on
Learn to be friendly, respectful, helpful, and nice. Learn is something special.

If for any reason you find it overwhelming at first, or if you get really stuck
along the way, ask for help and an instructor from the community will be glad to
help. There is an 'Ask a Question' button in all lessons on
[Learn.co](https://learn.co) for this reason. You can also see questions from
other students who may be working on similar problems.

## The In-Browser Learn IDE

One of the time consuming parts of getting started with programming is setting
up your work environment.  I.g. getting the right versions of the language
you're learning, finding a good text editor, file management, downloading and
installing command line tools.. instead of learning programming immediately,
you're stuck troubleshooting.

Learn provides a solution for this so you can get to writing code faster: the
in-browser Learn IDE.  The in-browser IDE is a fully functional text editor and
command line interface, connected with your GitHub account through Learn. It
automates some steps for us and also comes with some built in command line tools
such as `learn`, used for running tests in later lessons.

Eventually, when you dive deeper and create your own projects, you may likely
decide to set up your own work environment, or you may already have some
experience coding and are an [Atom](https://atom.io/) wiz, and that is fine, too.

You can choose if you'd like to use the in-browser IDE, our stand alone,
_downloadable_ Learn IDE, or your own customized local environment by going to
the [Learning Environment](https://learn.co/account/environment) section in the
Manage Account of Learn.  Make sure to choose which setting you'd like before
continuing.

If you have opted for the in-browser IDE, you'll notice a 'Sandbox' button on
the top right of this lesson readme.  The Sandbox acts as a scratch pad for
practicing as you read lessons, and will save any files you create or edit for
later reference.  On lessons where there are tests, the 'Sandbox' button becomes
an 'Open IDE' button, which, when clicked, will create your own copy of the
lesson files to work on.

Additional resources for setting up are linked at the bottom of this lesson. And
remember, if you're not sure of something, feel free to use the 'Ask a Question'
button!

## Conclusion

You're just getting started, and we're happy you're here. To proceed to the next
lesson, press the "I'm Done" button in the right rail then hit "Next Lesson".

Happy Learning!

## Resources

- [Changing Your Learn Environment](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/changing-your-learning-environment)
- [The IDE in Browser](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/ide-in-browser)
- [Downloading and Using the Standalone Learn IDE](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide/how-to-download-and-use-learn-ide-3)
- [Learn IDE FAQ](http://help.learn.co/the-learn-ide)
- [Ask a Question FAQ](http://help.learn.co/ask-a-question)
- [Learn Community FAQ](http://help.learn.co/your-learn-community)
- [Workflow Tips for Custom Local Environments](http://help.learn.co/workflow-tips)

<p data-visibility='hidden'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/the-learn-philosophy' title='The Learn Philosophy'>The Learn Philosophy</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
